Okay, so in this lecture,
if you're not too familiar with how encryption works,
I want to give you a little bit of details
on how it works at a high level.
So, first let's talk about encryption in flight,
which is going to be referred as TLS or SSL.
TLS is the newest version of SSL.
So what we have is that the data is going to be encrypted
before sending the data.
And then it will be decrypted after receiving it.
So this is for communication
between a client and a server over a network.
And so what's going to be happening
is that for encrypting the data
TLS certificates are going to be used.
And this is what you see when you go onto websites
and it says HTTPS, that means that the connection
between you and the server
is going to be encrypted using TLS certificates.
Why do we want encryption in flight?
Well, because we're sending data over a network
and sometimes a public network
and the data goes around many different servers.
We don't want to be having a man in the middle attacks
where a middle server receives the data
and just observes the packages we're sending to the server.
And so what we want to have HTTPS or TLS, or SSL,
this is when we know that only the target server
can decrypt the encrypted data we're sending.
So let's take an example.
We have a client and a server
and we want to be able to securely login
into the server by providing our username and password.
But we only want the target server to be able to receive it.
So we're going to have the username and password
and then we're going to apply TLS encryption
on the client side automatically.
The data is going to be encrypted and sent over the network.
So as you can see, no between server can decrypt the data
and only the target server
can use the TLS decryption mechanism
to decrypt that package
and then see that we've sent the username and password.
And therefore say that we're securely logged in.
So that's for encryption in flight.
The next one is around the server side encryption at rest.
The idea is that the data will be encrypted
after being received by the server
so that it's stored securely.
And then it will be decrypted
before being sent back to our clients.
It will be stored in an encrypted form
thanks to a key, and that key is usually a data key.
And so the whole idea of managing these keys
for encryption and decryption
is that the management must happen somewhere
and the server must have access to these keys.
So let's take a service,
for example, Amazon S3.
We're sending an object over HTTP,
maybe even HTTPS for inflight encryption.
And so the service receives our object, but it is decrypted.
So the service can use a data key,
and using the data key and the decrypted objects,
we can have encryption of that object at rest.
And then when it comes to sending back that object
to the clients, the encrypted objects and the data key
will be used together to decrypt.
We'll have a decrypted form of object,
and then that object will be sent over HTTPS
back to the clients.
So we received the decrypted object as is.
As we can see in this case,
there is a server side encryption
because all the encryption and decryption
happens on the server.
So finally let's talk about client-side encryption.
And the idea is that this time
the data is encrypted and decrypted at the client side.
And the server should never be able to decrypt the data
because we don't trust a server in that case.
So for this, we could leverage encryption
for this mechanism.
So let's have an example.
The client has an object
and the data key this time is client side.
And after encryption, we get an encrypted object.
That encrypted object can be sent then securely
to any storage service available, an FTP server,
Amazon S3, EBS volumes, et cetera.
And they will be stored in encrypted form.
So the entire server can not even decrypt the data contents.
When we retrieve the contents,
we retrieve the encrypted object directly.
And if we still have access to the data key client-site,
then we're able to perform the decryption mechanism
and get the decrypted objects back.
So that's it for the three encryption mechanisms
we can see in the Cloud.
I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.